DOMjudge FAQ
============

This is a general FAQ covering all (possible) problems we have
encountered during installation, testing, running, etc. of this
DOMjudge jury-system. If you run into problems not mentioned here, you
can always contact us (see domjudge.sourceforge.net for contact
information). If we have time, we'll try to help. Furthermore any
feedback on problems you ran into and solved is very welcome!


- GCJ compiler warnings

When using the GNU GCJ compiler for compiling Java sources, it can
give a whole lot of warning messages of the form

/usr/lib/gcc-lib/i386-linux/3.2.3/libgcj.a(gc_dlopen.o)(.text+0xbc): In function `GC_dlopen':
: Using 'dlopen' in statically linked applications requires at runtime the shared libraries from the glibc version used for linking

These are generated because you are trying to compile statically
linked sources, but some functions can not be static, e.g. the
`dlopen' function above. These are _warnings_ and can be safely
ignored, because under normal programming contest conditions people
are not allowed to use these functions anyways (and they are not
accessible within the chroot-ed environment the program is run in).

To filter these warnings, take a look at judge/compile_java_gcjmod.sh
and replace judge/compile_java.sh by this file.


- Permissions for the webserver

Make sure that the webserver serving the DOMjudge webinterface pages
has correct permissions to the SYSTEM_ROOT/{www,lib,etc} directory
trees. The 'www' and 'lib' trees can safely set to be readable and
accessible. Care should be taken with the 'etc' dir: 'config.php' and
'passwords.php' should be readable, but 'passwords.php' should best
not be readable by anyone else. This can be done for example by
setting the SYSTEM_ROOT/etc directory to owner:group
<DOMjudge account>:<Webserver group> and permissions drwxr-x---,
denying user other than yourself and the webserver group access to the
configuration and password files. Of course a looser or tighter scheme
can be applied.



$Id$
